How to advertise your services as a copywriter

So you're a copywriter, then put up a page describing your skills, experience and areas of operation on this site.
All pages are moderated and will take time to be published. You are asked not to put up more than one representation of yourself on this site, and the site managers will endeavour to control that point.

How to buy copywriters' services

So you're a buyer of copy, then please feel free to ask of the copywriters their response to your brief. Please keep your request clearly outlined, short in the first instance, and include estimated budgets, timescales and any experiences about type of copy or quality that you'd like to share.

But not yet. This site is currently just a speck in an enthusiast's eye. However, you are welcome to register yourselves or send your email so that we can let you know when it's going to go live.

When live, there are rules and guidance that this site would like you to follow.

Just 2 copywriters at a time

The biggest problem is of copywriters spending too much of their time quoting on jobs the briefs of which have been sent to many other copywriters and having too little time to deliver and so as a matter of site policy it is not permitted to ask more than 2 copywriters at a time for their responses. As far as possible this site managers will endeavour to control that point and encourage you to reveal who else the brief has been sent to.

Just 2 buyers at a time

Within a time period judged by the operators of the site, no more than two buyer requests can be entertained at any one time, even if you lose the job.

Copywriting Quality - not just the buyer's problem

Copywriting quality is a varied and exciting beast. Difficult to measure and not always immediately apparent. It's efficacy may be the foil of judgement yet still that may be contrary to an alternative metric. In some cases long words and poetic sentences may technically hit the point but be almost unreadable.

Sometimes you will hire an expensive copywriter and he or she just won't quite hit the brief, and sometimes it's the other way round - you strike lucky and that cheap deal produces exactly what you wanted, or at least what you had expected of it.

Expectation Management

In order to maximise your satisfaction with this site (and minimise disappointment) it is a good idea to follow these basic tenets.

Scope Creep

Scope Creep is the term given to purchasers who will add to the brief after it has been quoted for or as it has been partly or fully answered.
Sneaky buyers pretend that what has been supplied wasn't what they asked for, or wasn't as much as they asked for, or worse, they may have known or suspected from their own experience or expectation that what they asked for wasn't achievable within the agreed bounds of the initial quote.

Clear Understanding

As a buyer - be clear at the start of the limits of your brief and expectation and don't add detail and further demands as the job progresses under any guise or umbrella of guilt.

Don't take advantage of inexperience in quoting

As a copywriter - always be completely clear about what you expect to achieve in the time and price alloted. Inexperience of quoting properly is often the culprit and there is probably no experienced copywriter that has not at one time or another underestimated the task in hand.

One of the aims of this site is to bring buyer and seller together for long term business relationships and poor understanding at the outset is a quick way for both parties to be disappointed.

Deliver your best

In return for a buyer putting their trust in you, the copywriter, it is expected that at whatever the price you've agreed, and at whatever level of involvement you have negotiated, that you will deliver to the highest quality within the time and budget. Delivering rubbish is not an option and this site will take a judgement on any complaints and will be prepared to remove your representation from this site. Once banned you will likely be banned for ever.

This site is independent of your business relationship but the site managers are the final arbiter of use of the site.

In order to use this site you must understand and agree that this site is not liable for anything that happens between parties, i.e. that any business that you undertake or agree to is at your own risk and the agreement is made directly between the parties involved.
Also that we reserve the right to delete or ban (or add) anyone at any time at our discretion
