What's not working:
🔥 1-shot or bust – Vibe code tools like Lovable and Bolt are awesome if you are able to 1-shot something. If not, you’re left with a messy, sprawling code base that is a nightmare to debug.
 🪓 Impossible to maintain – These spaghetti code bases become brittle and impossible to add new features to over time without breaking something else. Not fun!
 🙅 Not good enough for non-techies – Engineers stick with practitioner tools Cursor/Claude Code (VSCode / CLI). Non-technical users tried vibe tools but quickly hit their limits.
What actually needs to change?
1️⃣ MORE PRESCRIPTIVE STACKS – Vibe coding platforms need to be MORE not less prescriptive around their tech stacks - this helps you auto-remediate common errors/bugs so code is more likely to just work (think Lovable defaulting to Supabase + Stripe out-of-the-box). This looks like something closer to the natural evolution of hackathon "boilerplate" template and less "generate everything from scratch". Expect to see more tech stack-steering or "app marketplace" equivalent of partners they know work well / play nicely. Gives highly opinionated platforms like v0 by Vercel an advantage but also introduces challenges if you are too rigid (death by a million Typescript compiler errors!)
 2️⃣ GROUNDING + memory – Tools should build graphs to map dependencies and store data models, markdown files to save key decisions and architecture choices so the model can refer to them after you hit max context window. The models need better context, better memory, better grounding!
 3️⃣ QA loops – Unit tests + QA baked into the code gen process. Ideally, you have QA testing running in prod too to catch and suggest fixes to self-heal bugs in production. My personal theory is that PR review gets subsumed into the coding tools (because this closes the training loop - we are seeing this already with Bugbot by Cursor) but there may be space for a large independent code QA company.
 4️⃣ Human in the loop – Until models level up, we need a boost from human devs / devshops to debug and wrangle code. “Vibe code cleanup specialist” is a real job - somewhere between developer and model whisperer. Luckily, it's easier to evaluate code than to write it but vibe coding is still <<< having a 10x human engineer
That said, people with (A LOT OF) patience have managed to launch full vibe-coded apps (I've launched 2 in the app store!) but we still have a long way to go before this feels like true "AI magic" - in the meantime, I'm looking for the next wave of vibe coding tools that understood the assignment (opinionated stack, grounded in graphs, testing built in, human in the loop).
Alistair Barr
https://lnkd.in/eRVA765h